---
title: eJPT Exam
author: mooncake
date: 2020-12-21 12:00pm
categories: [blog, exam, elearnsecurity]
tags: [elearnsecurity, exam, certification]
math: true
image: /assets/img/sample/eJPT.png
---
<p>
so this year i have been trying to get into the pentesting /offensive side of security and trying to get my certifications going. already having EC-Council C|ND (Certified Network Defender) and C|EH (Certified Ethical Hacker, i wanted to get some more "practical" certificatons as the other two are more theory than anything else.
</p>
my next certification goal is the OSCP (Offensive Security Certified Professional) but with the price tag of it at the moment I just cannot do it right now so i am now just focusing on the smaller certifications, like eJPT and then finish the CEH Mastery which requirexisd the C|EH Pratical.
</p>
<p>
so for the past month i have been contemplating doing eJPT first and have literally been procrastinating on purachasing it and wating for the dollar to rand to come down as it's been pretty crazy the past few months.
</p>
<p>
so on 16 decmeber i purchased the eJPT exam. the courseware (called PTS, penetration testing student) is free through INE wth the starter pass and I had a quick run through of it and seems very easy as i have already been dabbling in this sort of stuff for a while. i waited 2 days for any details on the exam but i didn't receive anything. i emailed support who quickly sent through the details for the exam.
the exam voucher is valied for 6 months but there was no ways i would wait that long. i decided i was gonna wait 2 weeks before i do it. you have 3 days to complete the exam, answering 20 questions and you have to get 15 answers correct to pass. 
</p>
<p>
sunday morning, 20 december, i decided, why wait two weeks when i can do it today. it should be easy enough! i spoke to a few people who said that they did it in 3 - 10 hours which would be more than enough time.
</p>
<p>
1:45pm i hit start and received my letter of engagement and vpn files to connect to the network.
the letter of engagement is basically the letter which states the scope and what is requirement from the assessment, just like any other engagement from doing a real pentest.
</p>
<p>
without going into detail about the exam of course, it was a very enjoyable pentest. for me it was pretty straight forward, but so straight forward that i literally wondered why is this so easy which made me miss some vital information in the beginning which i wasted an hour or two on.
what should have been a 2 hour pentest for me, turned into 6 hours. it was annoying because i was overthinking, but it was a great feeling. i had to take a break at one point because i was pretty overwhelmed by the amount of windows, shells, tabs and everything i had open.
</p>
<p>
at hour 3 i already knew i had the 15 points required, but really wanted 20, so i spent quite a bit overthinking the simplest of things.
once i decided enough was enough i clicked submit and was welcomed with the "Congratulations! You have passed the eJPT exam." 18/20 and I am not even sure which 2 questions i had wrong.
</p>
<p>
this is definitly a good exam to start off in the direction for pentesting and it's a stepping stone for the rest of eLearnSecurity paths.
</p>
Lessons learned:
<br>
1) DON'T OVERTHINK! I did so many times and I spent too much time overthinking the smallest of things.
<br>
2) TAKE NOTES! Jot down WHERE you get your information from. I lost out on a point because I had information about something but could not remember where I got it from so I just thought I made a typo.
<br>
3) TEST EVERYTHING! Just because you think something is too easy and you think, surely they won't do that, TEST IT!
<br>
4) TAKE A BREAK! At one point I was overwhelmed. Too many windows, terminals, tabs, etc. I walked away from my PC and went for a 35 minute run. Came back refreshed.

